# Socket Programming

The purpose of this program is to implement *word count application* using the socket programming. Socket programming is connecting two nodes which are server and client on a network to communicate with each other. Server listens on a particular IP address and port number, while clients reaches out to the server to build a connection. There are master process, multiple mapper processes, and a single reducer process. We use socket-based TCP connections for communication. Master process is the main process of the client program and it spawns multiple mapper processes. Reducer process is the main process of the server program. It spawns a thread whenever it establishes a new TCP connection with the client. It is called a multi-threaded server. The client program has two types of clients. Master clients and Mapper clients. Each mapper process initiates a TCP connection to the server. Once the connection is established, the mapper client sends deterministic requests, a fixed set of requests, to the server.

In order to compile the program, run the shell command *make* inside the *server* and *client* directory. *make clean* will remove any files generated by the compilation process. You should type the following syntax as the commend line after *make* : "*./server [Server Port]*" for the server, "*./client [Folder Name] [# of Mappers] [Server IP] [Server Port]"* for the client.

The example of the commend line :

* Server - "./server 8088"
* Client - "./client Testcases/TestCase2 5 127.0.0.1 8088"
